this video is report writing 40
correctional officer providing you with
a brief outline on the importance of
good report writing skills by Carl
Torres Benz Arthur or wasted honor
we all agreed us one such focal point
was good report writing that this was
discussed during a meeting with several
retired administrators and correctional
officers as we all seem to not our heads
in agreement that it appears we have not
moved forward a bit in this area in the
last couple of years and we feel that
the importance of good report writing
has been lost somewhere along the line
we sat down and we broke it down and we
came up with several points or points of
views on this matter
and the first point is to make the
officers ability to write better in
relationship to grammar set instructors
and writing skills today's officers have
improved but the deficiency is in
communicating or matching the essential
and precise details for the report to
have both structure and format consider
still to be flawed the primary concern
other than the poor quality of the
reports or reports often written in the
third person stay away from writing in
the third voice write the report in the
first person and tell the reader tell me
what you saw tell me what you heard
remember you are a witness to the event
or events you are a first responder you
are the reporter the information written
is yours and this is what you want to
tell the reader as you tell what you saw
or smell touched and this is what you
want to tell the reader so be brief and
concise your writing skills are often
reflected in a manner how you
communicate or talk while you're on the
social websites or other informal
communication stuffs you must refrain
from doing that as well as using work
jargon avoiding to use of work jargon or
work-related slang in your
to make it clear for the reader who may
not be a correctional officer or someone
in law enforcement but perhaps a juror
or a witness reading the report also the
reader could also be the prosecutor or
detectives investigators who are trying
to glean the relevance and factual
information to follow up with their own
duties thus making them struggle a
little bit to make sense out of your
narrative report if is written poorly
one prosecutor said as a former
prosecutor I can tell you that the
grammar spelling in sentence structure
can have an impact on credibility should
the jury see the reports I know that
content is the most important part but
the collateral damage can be great
report writing need to stick to the
basis not at the beginning of such
training and cover to who what when
where how and carefully follow up with
the type of actions that taken to handle
or manage such an incident if you know
why if you know the most intimate parts
of the report don't hesitate to include
that in your actually taken officers
must avoid cookie cutter reports
everybody knows what a cookie cutter
report is because and they serve no
purpose and they only provide the
attorney with bullets to tear the
validity of the report apart remember
that if you're going to copy somebody's
report that report is just not going
it's not going to count as an additional
report it's just going to count as a
duplicate of the prayer reports already
submitted sharing or copying reports
should never be encouraged or instructed
by supervisors as the value of the
report is degraded when such action
exists and as exposed or revealed by
other sources such as District
Attorney's of defensive lawyers who will
attack the credibility of the writer
when it's written in synchronization
with other reports submitted at the time
of the incident today most critical
incidents are recorded on video does the
content of the video writers of the
report writers must be consistent with
the data contained within a video
recording of the same event going back
to back
and essential data is important do not
ramble or write too much in these
reports in other words don't write a
book and stick to just ready to facts as
you know them to be at the time of
writing it has been said that you follow
the format strained a good report will
stand on his own merits and tell the
reader what you wanted them to clean
learn how to articulate your words keep
it at the level you're most comfortable
with
don't use words that are extravagant or
fancy and beyond your comprehension or
your communication level explain
sometimes verbally sometimes in writing
while you wrote what you did with a
brief objective statement that explains
the event as you understood it to occur
stay away from propagating rumors or
subjective thoughts that stick to the
facts don't use abbreviations or text
language and take time to spellcheck the
entire document to make it both readable
as structured in format for the reader
and purpose designed to answer their
concerns is a good report writing
significant the answer is yes the need
needs to be accurate and the stress on
it is very high as it's required that
every report should be submitted
accurately the fact that many agencies
have lowered their recruitment standards
has impacted the quality of employees as
their educational and work skills are
still unrefined and in need of more
structure coming out of school the Armed
Forces is an even college it should be
fair to say that shoddy reports writing
may lead to shoddy investigations
thus we stress the importance of writing
a good report not filled with irrelevant
data or opinions good report writing
results in good outcomes for the
officers and all those concerns it can
also be said to having the ability to
write good reports it's also associated
with the ability to perform good
critical thinking on the job many times
reports are written without providing
essential background information and
filled with useless or non relevant
information that is both harmful and
useless to the reports purpose and
intent the college format
WWH left out an extremely important area
what action was taken do not forget to
write what action was taken although
some report forms have a box for that
include that in the body of report just
in case this focus on your critical
thinking skills and is an important
element of the report and adds
credibility to your words fact remains
the four reports don't add much value to
an incident in order to require more
follow-up work to be done to get the
right information to begin with that's
the loss of precious productivity and
time regarding the outcome of such
investigations or reviews many reports
are recycled or rewritten several times
before both legible and understandable
to the reader and for the purpose it
serves at the time this is happening
because many fail to proofread their own
or others writings before submitting
their report it appears the job is
already most stressful and most
difficult then add more time on the chef
staying late to write these reports it
can be done the first time if you do it
right then take the time to cover the
basics after all how many times have you
been asked for a supplementary report on
a report you may have already written it
may be serving you as a hint on whether
your report writing skills need
improvement or if they are satisfactory
enough to share with others your special
skill to communicate effectively through
report writing